# Lumen

42%. As a student, that number terrifies me. That number represents failure. That number tells me that, if I want to succeed, something needs to change, and it needs to change now. 

That number also happens to represent the number of applied math students that met the Ontario provincial standard for mathematics in grade nine in the past three years. This is completely unacceptable. Students in applied classes may learn at a slower pace, but there is no way that they are incapable of ever being able to find the slope of a line or solve for x. In fact, I’m willing to bet that every single one of the students in grade nine in our school board could pass that test with flying colours, if given the right resources. And that’s what we’re here for. We’re absolute power, and we’re about to revolutionize education. 

We have created an app called Lumen, a virtual learning community where students can come together and share their ideas and knowledge with others. Students can ask for help, provide tutoring expertise, or participate in group chat sessions called round tables that allow them to collaborate and brainstorm ideas together. All of the services are free, but tutors will be able to make money through the revenue generated through advertisements on the app. Because Lumen is a social enterprise, all of the profits are given to the tutors. Lumen is already gaining a retinue of followers on social media platforms including Instagram and Facebook. We plan on using the influence we have on these platforms, as well as advertising in schools, to market our app. 

Lumen is going to be the next big step in digitizing education. This process has already started. We have websites like Khan Academy and online courses that provide all the information a student could ever ask for, but there’s one thing that’s missing from the Internet classroom: and that’s Lumen. Lumen fills a specific niche in the online education system in that it provides an opportunity for students to communicate and collaborate with each other. Learning facts from Sal Khan’s videos is great, and answering online quizzes is even better, but none of these things teach students the critical skill of communicating this knowledge with others and working together to come up with solutions to problems. Further Lumen provides students with free access to personal tutors that is difficult to come by otherwise. This means that every student can have the same access to these resources, regardless of their financial status.

Let’s talk about where we’re at. Like any great creation, Lumen is built on the shoulders of giants. We are using two excellent APIs: Twilio and PayPal. At the moment, the PayPal API has not been integrated into the app as we are still in the beta testing process and our current users are not making money, but rather giving us valuable advice on how we can make the best possible product. Twilio, on the other hand, is integrated and is providing excellent video chatting capabilities to our app. 
